---
layout: post
title: "Sunday"
date: 2021-08-08
---

The weekends are usually lazy for me. Normally, I cook a week's worth of lunch, wash my hair, and pamper myself with some skin care. Today was nothing different, I had to cook with whatever is left in my fridge since I'll take another half a month long trip on Friday. I am an exceptional planner when it comes to buying groceries. I absolutely despise throwing away food. Unless the food has gone bad, I'll not even take it anywhere near the trash can. I grew up valuing food, and even if I never experienced food scarcity, I was always taught to appreciate food because a lot of people sleep hungry everyday. The food that we consider inedible sometimes, a lot of people will kill to take a bite of that. I come from India, and I have seen poverty all around me, and my parents have always made sure I understand that I have a privileged background. My friends have made fun of my habit of wiping my plate clean after every meal, but I never cared. Today, I'm thankful that my family taught me these values at a very young age and I abide by them.


{% 
include image.html 
file="https://debashmitap.github.io/images/bhindi.jpg" 
alt="From the left: Basmati rice, kidney beans curry, sauted spinach, and stewed okra" 
caption="From the left: Basmati rice, kidney beans curry, sauted spinach, and stewed okra" 
%}

Anyway, I successfully cleaned my fridge, and made sure I finish eating whatever I bought from the market. I didn't have a lot to cook, so I was done pretty fast. I tasted *okra* after almost three years. I always loved *okra* and specially the way my mom cooks. I tried to replicate her recipe, which was super easy and uses turmeric as the only spice, pretty unusual for the Indian cuisine. This simple dish reminds me of home instantly, but in L'Aquila it's impossible to find okra in the supermarket, because the Italians don't use them in their cuisine. There is a small Asian store near my house, which sells very specific foreign products. During one of my visits, I saw them selling okra in a small plastic bag. I was a bit skeptical in buying them since I wasn't sure if it would be fresh, however I got one small pack because I haven't seen them after I came to Italy. I froze them, and decided to cook them when I am alone. After 4 months, today, I finally got the chance to cook them. Another favourite Indian food for me is *Rajma Chawal*. Rajma is kidney bean and chawal is rice. Since I spent a few years in Delhi during my childhood, I became fond of Rajma Chawal, which is a staple in north Indian cuisine.


{% 
include image.html 
file="https://debashmitap.github.io/images/colour.jpg" 
alt="My hair after colouring" 
caption="My hair after colouring" 
%}

After a scrumptious lunch, I decided to colour my hair. Last year, I bought a semi-permanent dye to change my look after the lockdown and bring some colour to my otherwise mundane life. I got the colour Cyclamen from <a href="https://www.crazycolor.co.uk">Crazy Color</a> which is a deep pink dye, and seemingly suits my skin tone. Well, the colour was gone after two washes, but it was a cool experiment. I decided to go for it again, and finish the bottle of colour. The waiting time is 15-30 minutes after application, so it was fast. I wash my hair once a week, so I guess the colour will stay for the entirety of the trip. Keeping my fingers crossed. 


*"Sunday comes and Sunday goes"- Sonic Youth (Sunday)* 
