---
layout: post
title: "Get Together"
date: 2021-06-24
---

If you want to learn about uncertaininty, the best way to do so is to check out the weather forecast. Today was predicted to be sunny and 31&deg;C. At around 12:15, I was about to go out for lunch, and suddenly there was a heavy downpour. It came out of nowhere. Imagine the people who were outside, enjoying the sun, without an umbrella! I waited for the rain to stop, checked the weather forecast, which didn't mention anything about the sudden summer rain, and took an umbrella with me. Guess what? There was no rain after that sudden shower, instead it became hot and humid. 


I stayed home in the afternoon and worked. I had a dinner planned with all my colleagues at 8pm to an Irish pub. We decided to meet for one last time before everyone goes for their summer vacations. We had a round of drinks, and decided to have a hamburger for dinner. We were sitting outside, so no one could hear anyone, and we had to resort to shouting. The Italian way of getting your word around the table. After that, we decided to go for another round of drinks. L'Aquila looks quite alive in the summer with most of the population being vaccinated. We went to our dedicated drinks bar called *Osteria Pantasima*. An osteria is a place where the locals hangout, drink and eat. So this place also serves good food along with some good cocktails. We sad around the table, and started discussing about how old we are getting. We started showing our ID cards, and you could clearly see the transition. It was really funny to see us age, because we had such daring styles in the past. Hairstyles mainly. The older we get, the less experimental we are with our outlook, and it was true for everyone. 


{% 
include image.html 
file="https://debashmitap.github.io/images/chiarino.jpg" 
alt="The busy Piazza Chiarino on a Thursday night" 
caption="The busy Piazza Chiarino on a Thursday night" 
%}


We decided to wrap up the night around midnight. As soon as we stepped out of the bar, we could see a sea of people. It was quite difficult to get past that crowd. Now Thursday nights are a tradition in L'Aquila. Before the pandemic, it was customary to gather around a place called *Piazza Chiarino*, every Thursday at around 11pm or even later. No matter how hot or cold it is, the tradition remained. The crowd consists mainly of university students, and they chose Thursdays because a lot of Italians go back home on Fridays after the classes to spend the weekend with their families. It's a great way to meet new people and make friends. Back in 2018, on one of the Thursday nights, I met a girl named Ilaria, who is a great friend of mine now. I met her family and her pets, and they absolutely adore me. Today, it felt like the old times. People were hanging out with a glass of alcohol, socializing and just having a good time. Believe in science people, 'cause that's the only thing that can save us! 

*"Everybody get together* <br>
*Try to love one another right now" - The Youngbloods*
