---
layout: post
title: "MasterChef"
date: 2021-07-24
---

After 10 hours of long and undisturbed sleep, I woke up feeling refreshed. The 4 weeks long trip really exhausted me. Now that I was well rested, I could finally start planning my day. I normally take the whole morning to cook meals for the entire week. My desi genes act up if I eat just one thing for lunch. So I normally cook 3-4 things in huge batches and box it up. I love eating Bengali food, since I grew up eating simple home cooked Bengali meals and reminds me of home, so I tend to cook simple Bengali meals. The entire morning was dedicated to cooking. I follow <a href="https://www.bongeats.com">Bong Eats</a> as a guide, since I never cooked when I was in Kolkata. 

{% 
include image.html 
file="https://debashmitap.github.io/images/khabar.jpg" 
alt="From the left: stir fry veggies, cooked split Bengal gram, mixed veggies and chicken curry" 
caption="From the left: stir fry veggies, cooked split Bengal gram, mixed veggies and chicken curry" 
%}

After lunch, I wanted to take a shower, however, there was an interruption in the water supply. I was worried that I did not pay the bills on time, but decided to check the website to find some information before drawing any conclusions. The website stated that there were some works going on in the center and we need to wait til 16:00 for a normal flow. I decided to go ask my downstair neighbour about her water situation, since I'm not fluent in Italian and I might have misunderstood something. She confirmed that her water flow was the same as mine. 

After the lomg wait and a shower, I called my cousin, who is doing his PhD in Innsbruck. He and his gf plans on visiting me in the last week of August, so I had to finalize some plans with the both of them. I'll be meeting them in Rome, and later, they'll come to L'Aquila, where I can show them around. I am really close to him since he is 11 days younger than me, so we are technically of the same age. My mom and his mom are sisters, so we are first degree cousins, and we grew up together. Back in Kolkata, we used to sleepover at each other's houses often. He is the only family I have got here in Europe, and I feel a bit relieved knowing that there is always someone whom I can visit. 
