---
layout: post
title: "Back home"
date: 2021-07-23
---

Woke up at 3:30am today! Our flight was at 5:30am from Tallinn to Helsinki, then we had a 45mins layover in Helsinki, and another 3 and a half hours flight to Rome. You must be wondering, why didn't we take a flight from Helsinki instead! The flight from Helsinki to Rome was 30% more expensive than the one from Tallinn with a layover in Helsinki. Airline companies are crazy!
Our Uber was supposed to pick us up at 4am, however, they decided to cancel our scheduled ride, leaving us in dismay. Thankfully, Renan knew how to drive and we had to walk around 10 minutes to get to the car we rented. Airport car sharing drop off was another hassle! Renan left me near the entrance of the airport with all the luggage and went to park the car. He took almost half an hour to return. I was getting quite anxious because we had to go to the counter, show our vaccination certificates nad IDs in order to receive our boarding passes. Later, he told me, he had to find a parking spot dedicated only to these car sharing services, and  for that he had to go to the nearby mall. Well! We got our boarding passes and took a short half an hour flight to Helsinki. The flight from Helsinki to Rome was quite comfortable. We gained an hour, because Finland is an hour ahead of CEST. We waited for the bus to L'Aquila in the airport for sometime. 

{% 
include image.html 
file="https://debashmitap.github.io/images/gaspari.jpeg" 
alt="On my way back to L'Aquila" 
caption="On my way back to L'Aquila" 
%}

Normally the direct bus from Fiumicino airport to L'Aquila takes approximately two hours to reach, but today, it took almost 3 hours! I was feeling warm and famished by the time I reached L'Aquila! I had a cup of coffee and a pastry at 5am, and it was almost 14:00. We had to take another bus to reach our respective houses and there is only one bus every hour, and we had just missed it because of the delay. I had already sworn to myself that I won't touch any junk food for at least a week as soon as I reached L'Aquila (I ate extremely unhealthy meals for a month). Well! Guess what? There is a McDonald's right infront of the bus stop! So we either had to wait for an hour under the sun with our luggage and an empty stomach, or we can go inside McDonald's and enjoy a nice meal in the AC. Ofcourse it was the latter one! 

We reached home, unpacked, rested for a bit, and headed out to the supermarket! I'm so happy that we have a Carrefour Express near our house now! It opened a bit over a month back, and is just a 10 minutes walk away. All these years, going to the market has always been a hike, because L'Aquila is not a flat city. There were no supermarkets in the historic center and everytime we had to go to the market, we had to plan in advance. And it also accepted the food coupons that we get from our institute! So double the yayy! 


*"And no matter where we go<br/>*
*We always find our way back home"- Andy Grammer (Back Home)*
